
IUE Data Types

The available IUE data types are described below. Normally users
request the merged extracted spectral files (i.e., NEWSIPS MXLO or MXHI
files, or IUESIPS MELO or MEHI files). Additional documentation is
available on both the NEWSIPS and the (GO-format) IUESIPS data
products.  See http://archive.stsci.edu/iue/manual/newsips/node140.html
for a fuller description the NEWSIPS files.  
See http://archive.stsci.edu/iue/manual/iuesips/section8.html
for a fuller description of the IUESIPS files.

Below is a brief description of the files

NEWSIPS Files

   * MXLO, MXHI - The merged extracted spectral files containing the
     absolutely-calibrated fluxes, wavelengths, data quality flags, and
     sigmas (or noise estimates for MXHI files) in a FITS binary table 
     extension. The high dispersion files
     are named MXHI and the low dispersion files are MXLO. 

   * SILO, SIHI - The resampled image files (SILO & SIHI) from which
     the fluxes were extracted. These files contain the
     photometrically-corrected and rotated image as a primary array,
     wavelength information in a binary table extension, and an image 
     extension containing an array of data quality flags. The SI files 
     are useful for identifying camera artifacts such as cosmic ray hits, 
     etc.
     
   * RILO, RIHI - the raw image files (a 768x768 primary array
     image)

   * LILO, LIHI - the linearized image files (a 768x768 primary array
     file with associated data quality flags as a 768x768 array image
     extension)

IUESIPS Files

   * MELOL, MELOS, MEHIL, MEHIS - The merged extracted
     spectral files containing the absolutely-calibrated fluxes,
     wavelengths, and data quality flags in a project-defined data
     format based on VICAR. The portion of the name LO / HI describes
     the dispersion.  The last letter of the extension describes the
     aperture (i.e., l = large aperture, s = small). Note only large
     aperture data is photometrically accurate.  
     
   * ELBLL, ELBLS - Low dispersion resampled line-by-line image (ELBL) 
     files from which the fluxes were extracted (note no IUESIPS high 
     dispersion resampled images were generated). The ELBL files contain the
     photometrically-corrected image data, wavelength information, and
     data qualiy flags. These files are particularly useful for
     identifying cosmic ray hits, reseau, microphonic noise, etc. The
     last letter identifies the aperture used. 
   
   * RAW - The IUESIPS RAW image data as stored in
     the project-defined data format based on VICAR.

